We just deployed our first lambda,
it's pretty exciting, and
that's kind of Chapter 0.
So if you're following along with
the git project that's hosted on
mulkydev/frontendmasters, that's gonna
be the code that's on Chapter 0 branch.
And I think I like kind of
breaking up the chapters.
They're not really like, core chapters in
terms of introducing anything novel, but
I just think it's a good
timestamp that now, okay,
we've deployed a very slight
baby functional lambda.
Let's pause here,
let's figure out the next piece of
infrastructure that we wanna deploy.
And I'm gonna talk about what
we're gonna do in this chapter.
We're gonna add better project structure,
number one.
Right now we just have a main file,
a bunch of bootstraps, some executables,
it's kind of a mess.
We're gonna create an API handler,
we're gonna create a database handler,
an app struct, and
we're gonna register our users.
So that's the goal of this chapter,
we're gonna actually now
register the users into DynamoDB.
Cool, let's head back into our function,
just go right into it.
And actually,
the very first thing I wanna do is running
the goBuild command and
zipping it every time you make a change.
I mean,
it's not the best experience, right?
So let's actually make something
that makes all that helps us do it.
So let's seed back into our lambda, and
I want you to make a file called MakeFile.
If you ever used MakeFiles,
I personally like them.
I really like MakeFiles.
They basically allow you to run code
with your own alias for the command.
So I'm gonna put build,
cuz that's what this code is going to do.
I'm going to do @GOOS,
I'm gonna put the exact same command,
Linux, and
GOARCH is going to be amd64, and
it's gonna go build -o for
output, and then bootstrap.
And right underneath there, we're
gonna call that zip function in line.
So zip, function.zip bootstrap.
Make sure you don't get any
typos there in bootstrap or
the function zip that we're deploying,
okay?
Yes.
>> Quick question on the build process,
do you commit the outputs to version
control, or should those be ignored?
>> Those should be ignored.
>> The cdk.out?
>> Yeah, you can ignore the cdk.out, you
can also, if you're manually deploying,
you can ignore the bootstrap and
the function.zip as well.
And your doc get ignored over there.
Yeah, all right, so
now you can see here, if I add ls,
we have our bootstrap in function.zip,
I'm gonna be kind of wild and
remove the bootstrap rm -rf function.zip,
right?
So now they're no longer there.
And if you wanna rebuild everything,
instead of doing those two commands,
all you have to do is go, make build.
And now we have both of them.
So a nice little nifty,
I don't know, should I say quoi,
to help you deploy this?
Whatever, save you some time.
Okay, so like I said earlier, I want to
start with a better project structure,
I actually wanna start giving
this project some meat.
So first,
I'm gonna make a bunch of directories.
First one would be types, and in types, I
would like you to make it a types.go file.
We're gonna make another
directory called database, okay?
In this database,
we're gonna make a database.go file.
You're gonna make another one called api,
api.go.
And we're gonna make one more called
app as the folder, and then within app,
we're going to make app.go.
>> Are these all subfolders
of the lambda folder?
>> Yes, they're all subfolders, let me
make it a little bit more obvious here.
So, these are all within the lambda but
they're each individual.
So it's going to be lambda,
then lambda/api,
lambda/app, lambda/database,
and lambda/types.
And each of those directories is gonna
have the name directory.go file, api.go,
database.go, app.go, types.go.
And we have a bunch of errors,
don't worry,
that's the compiler yelling at us,
it likes to do that.
So let's go into types.go.
Types.go is gonna be the file we're
gonna have, can you guess what it is?
All of our type definitions.
That's not really true, I'm also gonna
use it as a miscellaneous function bed,
something, I don't know.
I'm gonna write code in here, too.
But the first step I wanna define is, like
I said, the goal is to register users.
And we know that we can control the struct
that we could unmartial the payload for
registering a user.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we're gonna type RegisterUser.
It's gonna be a struct.
And what do we need when
you register a user?
Username, right?
Let's back tick,
we need our json tags here.
It would put username, okay?
And then, unlike the previous event,
we're also gonna have password.
And this can be a string, and
this can be json:"password".
Cool, we have this new struct,
it's a type, we're good, we're laughing.
Cuz we expect our payload or client,
let's say we have a controlled client
experience where the form is
gonna send us a username json and
a password json with the value
associated to those keys.
We'd have a really good way to
unmarshal and handle all that.
Okay, and now this is where
it becomes a little dicey.
Let's go into our database.go,
make a package database.
The way we're going to
set up a project is,
we're gonna have the highest
layer being app.
Our app.go file is gonna basically
house the app struct, all right?
And that is going to have primarily
one field, which is our API layer.
Our API layer is gonna basically process
the logic that we're getting from
our invocations, do some cleaning,
do some register, whatever,
and then it's gonna communicate
to our database layer.
So this is where we're gonna define
everything for our database layer.
API layer, call database layer.
So they're nested within each other.
Cool.
So for now, what I want you
to do is create a new type,
let's call it DynamoDBClient.
It's gonna be a struct.
It's gonna have one field.
This field,
we're gonna call it databaseStore.
And for now, just make it a string.
I'll explain my zaniness and
wackiness in a little bit, okay?
I promise.
And down here, make a new func, right?
Cuz I like making new
DynamoDBClient functions.
This is gonna take pretty much nothing and
it's gonna return the DynamoDBClient
struct we just defined, okay?
And then we're just gonna say,
return DynamoDBClient,
and for a databaseStore,
put just database store.
We're gonna change this all up.
Just put any string here,
it doesn't really matter.
You can't call any substantial
logic on a string,
this is just for architecturing our app.
So this is the lowest level, right?
In our application, the lowest level we're
gonna communicate is our database layer.
The level right above that is
going to be our API layer, okay?
And our API layer,
it's gonna follow familiar structure.
So package api, and
we're gonna create a type.
So type, we're gonna make this ApiHandler,
it's gonna be a struct, okay?
And this ApiHandler struct
is going to contain,
what do you guys think it's gonna contain?
If we have this kind of
organization of app, ApiHandler,
DBStore, It's gonna-
>> Host methods or something here.
>> It's going to contain the struct that
we just defined in database.go, okay?
So, if it's a little confusing,
it should be.
What we're gonna do here is put database
store, we're gonna import, okay?
Remember how imports work.
Lambda-func, why is it lambda-func?
Cuz that's what we named our module,
/database.
If you did it right,
you should be complaining it's unused.
And then in here, we're gonna put
database right there, DBClient.
What does this mean?
This means when we call our API
functions and we handle our API layer,
we have an easy way to hit
right into our dbStore,
our database store,
where we can separate our logic.
Contain it, and not have any
mixed match or spaghetti code.
Cool, obviously we're not done,
let's create func NewApiHandler.
ApiHandler is gonna take an argument,
it's gonna be dbStore.
It's gonna be type string, cuz that's
what we defined our DynamoDBClient,
remember, string, right over there.
And it's going to return
the APIHandler type, okay?
So we do return APIHandler,
dbStore as dbStore.
There is a way to kinda
do this with a string.
I want to first execute it
with just a string, but
I think I've probably
confused myself a little bit.
If we just go back to our database,
we just kinda do it correctly
from the beginning, instead.
I think the string parameter is
kind of messing me up a little bit.
But essentially, instead of having this
string type, we could just have this
actual data type that it's expecting,
which is the DynamoDBClient here.
Here, we'll just instantiate and
we'll have to pull in the DynamoDBSDK.
Instead of doing the string, we're
gonna pass the actual expectation what
Dynamo expects to interact
with our DynamoDB DB layer.
So we'll do,
go get github.com/aws/aws/sdk-go,
and then we will do service/dynamodb.
Gonna take some time to download.
Okay, cool.
And there's gonna be something
else that we'll need for DynamoDB.
Go AWS has this concept when you
interact with different infrastructure,
they're going to have
something called a session.
And this session, it's basically a live
method to interact with our DB and
it associates our DB with our live
session client that we're executing.
So when we first execute this lambda,
we first call our NewDynamoDB function,
we're gonna pass it a new
session that we're creating.
And basically, every time we
wanna interact with our DynamoDB,
we use this session.
And this kinda handles closing
the DB in case you have it open, and
all that kind of stuff.
So it does all that for
you under the hood.
So here, we're gonna
import our DynamoDB.
So here, we'll go
github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/service/
dynamodb.
Okay, and then we will essentially also
need to pull in another package for
that session I just mentioned.
So we'll do go get
github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/aws/session.
Cool.
And now, in this client, instead of
DBClient struct being a database
store to a string, what we're actually
gonna do is pull it for a DynamoDB.
So we're gonna do DynamoDBClient, okay?
And now we have this error saying,
hey, our database store,
we can't actually, like,
it's not expecting anything.
Or it's not expecting
that this is a string,
we actually need to
create that DB instance.
And now I understand why
the previous example did not work,
we did not instantiate.
It has come full circle.
But that's okay.
Instead, we'll do a dbSession we can
do new dbSession as session.Must.
And I'm gonna put a session.NewSession.
Cool, I'm gonna call this function.
Awesome, and now we're going to put,
db is going to be dynamodb.New, and
it just expects our session to create
that, looking at what I talked about,
of instantiating a proper session and
passing it down.
Okay, so instead of a string here,
I'm gonna do a db.